hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in the course theory of
computation in the last lecture we have
seen an introduction about the course
theory of computation and in this
lecture we will be studying of about
some of the prerequisites that is some
of the basic important things that you
need to know before starting with our
finite State machine all right so let's
get started so in this lecture we will
be studying about some terms like symbol
alphabet string language and even some
more that would follow we will study
what this means and what they are used
for okay so let's start with symbol so
what is a symbol anything like a b c 0 1
2 3 anything like this used to represent
something is known as a symbol it could
be anything like a BC 0 1 2 3 and so on
that is a very simple and the most basic
part of it and let's come to the second
one alphabet an alphabet is denoted by
Sigma and an alphabet is
a
collection
of
symbols a collection of symbols denoted
by Sigma is known as
alphabets okay so we can take some
examples some examples would be
example uh we can say a b see it's a
collection of two symbols A and B or we
could even have more like d e f g the
collection of these four symbols also
could be an Al alphabet or we could even
have uh numbers like 0 1
2 and so on okay so a collection of
symbols denoted by Sigma is known as
alphabet now let's come to this third
one string what is a string a sequence
of symbols is known as sing
string sequence
of
symbols strings actually it means a
sequence of symbols now let's take some
examples some examples would be like uh
let me write it here a
a b just by itself or zero by itself one
by itself okay just by itself also we
can call it a string or we could have
other sequences like a a
BB a or 01 and so on okay so a sequence
of symbols is known as a
string okay now let's come to the next
one language now what is a language a
language is actually a
set of
strings a set of
strings okay let me just write it nicely
a set
of
strings a set of strings is known as a
language and we can have some example
over here this will become clear with
example okay to take an
example let's say that uh the alphabet
that is here denoted by Sigma the
alphabet that I have is the two digits 0
and 1 0 and 1 are my my alphabets and
now try let's try to Define some
languages over this alphabets
01 so let me say I have language L1
which is
the set
of all
strings of length
two the set of all strings of length two
so what would they be they would be my
alphabets are 0 and 1 so what will be
the set of all strings of length 2 over
1 0 0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1 so these are the
set of all strings of length two over
the alphabets 0o and one now let's take
another example L2
now L2 is the set of all strings of
length
three set of all
strings of
length three now what would this be my
alphabets are 0 and one so what would be
the set of all strings of length three I
guess I guess you have already thought
about it 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1
1 0 0 1 0 1 and 1 1 0 and 11 1
1 so these are the set of all strings of
length three over the alphabets 0 and 1
okay now let me take another example
over here which will be L3 L3 will be
the set
of all
strings of okay let us uh say that it is
not it is the set of all
strings
that
[Music]
begin
with zero the set of all strings with
which begins with zero is L3 so my
alphabet sets are still Zer and one so
what would they be they would be like
0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
1 0 1 0 0 1 1 and 0 0 0 0 and it goes on
this is actually an infinite set so
the two example that we took here L1 and
L2 these two L L1 and L2 they are finite
sets they are finite sets why because
they have finite number of elements here
we have four elements here we had eight
elements but this L3 L3 is
a infinite set it is an infinite
language why because this goes on this
does not end there are infinite number
of elements in this set so I think by
taking these examples L1 L2 and L3 over
these alphabets 0 and one the concept of
language became clear to us so language
are a set of strings over some
alphabets okay so I hope that was clear
now the next thing that we need to
discuss is known as powers of
Sigma powers of Sigma so this is the
next thing that we will be
discussing okay now to demonstrate this
let me
take uh an example again suppose my
alphabet set is
again 01 my alphabet Sigma is
01 now I'm going to define the powers of
Sigma so first of all let me Define
Sigma power Z Now what is Sigma power Z
Sigma power 0 is a set of all strings of
length zero this is equal to the set of
all
strings of
length of length zero now what would
this
be uh I would be I would denote
using Sigma power 0
and this is denoted by a special symbol
called
Epsilon this Epsilon is used to denote
the set of all strings of length zero
denoted by Sigma power 0 so remember
that Epsilon means is a set of all
strings of length zero okay so that was
about set of all strings of length zero
now let us come to the next one Sigma
power 1 I think you have already guessed
what it is Sigma power 1 is a set of all
strings
of
length
one now what would that
be that is Sigma power 1 is equal to
what would that
be 0 and one the set of all strings of
length one are 0 and one here zero the
length of this is just one and the
length of this one is also just one so
the all the set of strings of length one
is Sigma power 1 okay so the next one is
Sigma power
2 which is a set
of all
strings
of
length
two so what would they be Sigma power
two I hope you have already guessed it
they are 0 0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1 these are
the set of all strings of length two see
here 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 so these are the
set of all strings of length 2 denoted
by Sigma power 2 and then the next one
is Sigma power 3 which is
the set of all
strings of
length
three okay so what would they be I know
you must have guessed it
there are 0 0
0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0
and 1 one
one so these are the set of all strings
of length three see there are three 1 2
3 1 2 3 1 2 3 and so on so these are all
the uh sets of strings of length three
denoted by Sigma power 3 and then it
goes on like that and then it comes
to Sigma power n Sigma power n is
the set of all
strings of length what would be the
length what would be the length the
length would be n Sigma power n would be
the set of all strings of length n Okay
so that was about the powers of Sigma
Sigma power 1 2 3 up to
n so the next term that we need to
discuss is known as
cardinality
cardinality so I hope you already some
of you may already know what is the
meaning of cardinality cardinality
actually it means the number of elements
in a
set number
of element
in a set this is known as cardinality so
let us quickly check what are the
cardinality of uh these powers of Sigma
so Sigma power Z has only one element so
the cardinality is one and in Sigma
power 1 there are two elements 1 2 so
the cardinality is two and for Sigma
power 2 it is 4 1 2 3 4 and for Sigma
power 3 it is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 the
cardinality is8 and what about Sigma
power n in Sigma power n it is a set of
all strings of length and what so what
would be the cardinality the cardinality
of Sigma power n would be cardinality of
Sigma power n would be 2 power n right
so this is the formula that is followed
for the cardinality if if the um
alphabet is over two digits just 0 and 1
so for the sigma power n the cardinality
is 2 power n
okay so let's come to the last term that
we need to discuss that is Sigma
star Sigma star so in this Sigma star
the star can be replaced with Sigma
power 0 Union Sigma power 1 Union Sigma
power 2 Union Sigma power 3 and so on it
goes on so let us put the values here
and see what would we get Sigma power 0
what is it we have seen here already
Sigma power 0 is Epsilon Sigma power 1
is 0 1 Sigma power 2 is 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1
and so on so let us put it over here
Sigma power 0
is just Epsilon Union Sigma power 1 what
is it it is 0 1 Union Sigma power 2 is 0
0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1 and Union Sigma power
3 we know it is this one so it goes on
like this so what are this this can be
represented or written as the set of all
possible strings of all lengths over
01 it is the set
of
all
possible
strings of all
lengths of all
lengths over
what alphabet 0 and one so this Sigma
Power Star is the set of all possible
strings of all lengths over 0 and 1 okay
so since we have taken our alphabet as
01 so that is why we have written over
01 so depending on the kind of alphabet
that you take you have to write this so
can you guess whether this is a finite
set or in or an infinite set yes I hope
you have guessed it right this is an
infinite set because this goes
on okay so those were
the prerequisites or some of the basic
important things that you need to know
before starting with our final State
machines so if you have understood this
we are ready to start with our final
State machines which we will be starting
in the next lecture so see you in the
next one thank you
[Music]